# push_swap

Because swap_push isn't as natural.

The main goal of this project is to implement a sorting algorithm using only two stacks and a limited set of operations, aiming to produce the shortest possible instruction sequence.

## Objective

Create a program named `push_swap` that:

- Receives a list of integers as command-line arguments.
- Sorts this list using two stacks (A and B).
- Uses only the allowed operations (`sa`, `sb`, `ss`, `pa`, `pb`, `ra`, `rb`, `rr`, `rra`, `rrb`, `rrr`).
- Minimizes the total number of operations.
- Outputs the sequence of operations to `stdout`.

## Compilation

To compile the project, simply run:

```bash
make
```

To delete all objects (.o) files generated during compilation.

```bash
make clean
```

To delete all objects files and the final executable.

```bash
make fclean
```

To run fclean followed by make

```bash
make re
```

The executable push_swap will be created in the root directory.

## Usage

```bash
./push_swap [number1] [number2] [number3] ...
```

Example

```bash
./push_swap 3 2 1
```

Expected output (one command per line):

```bash
pb
pb
sa
pa
pa
```

## Validation

The project is validated using a companion program called checker (also developed as part of the project), which verifies whether the output commands correctly sort the stack.

```bash
ARG="3 2 1"
./push_swap $ARG | ./checker $ARG
```

Expected output:

```bash
OK
```

## Visualizer: push_swap_visualizer

An external visualizer is available to simulate and analyze the sorting steps of your algorithm.

## Installation

Clone the visualizer repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/o-reo/push_swap_visualizer.git
```

Install required dependencies (for Debian-based systems):

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install cmake g++ libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev \
libsdl2-dev libsdl2-image-dev libsdl2-ttf-dev libfreetype-dev
```

Build the visualizer:

```bash
cd push_swap_visualizer
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```

Run the visualizer:

```bash
./bin/visualizer
```

## How to Use

- push_swap Path: Make sure to update the visualizer with the correct path to your push_swap executable.

- Input Values:

	- You can input values manually or use the visualizer’s random array generator.

	- Optional: enable or disable input shuffling.

- Control Panel:

	- `Load` to load the operations generated by `push_swap`.

	- `Start` to begin the animation.

	- `Pause` or `Step` to inspect each operation in detail.

	- Adjust `speed` as needed.

